I was screaming I literally had to yell
just to keep my brain from just running
out of the room cuz I you know I knew I
wanted to stay in it so I was good up to
eight out of the 10 and then nine was
pretty severe did you fly into New York
to do it I did okay cuz I just took the
subway afterwards I go home 2 hours
later I had
[Music]
explosive this is Star Talk Neil degrass
Tyson here your personal astrophysicist
and today is a special edition of cosmic
queries coming to you from the Hearth of
Terry Cruz Terry Cruz wait let's get
let's get the Hearth going what are you
talking about let's get this going here
we go there we go oh now now it's real
he okay now we got a going fireside chat
with Terry Cruz so Terry you're my
co-host for this episode I love this man
and we go back so this should be fun
this is good man this makes my pectoral
I don't even know how to react it's so
good watching your it's so good I love
love learning about science I love
having my mind blown and just you you
just always every time I talk to you you
expand my brain well you living in the
right part of the country you like who
took up residence in Pasadena like near
Caltech that's right Institute of tech
JPL a branch of NASA so if there's any
you get it as osmotically as it comes
yeah exactly I just feel smarter being
here no this is good and we'll get to
the questions in a minute but I can't
Channel surf without seeing you on NBC
talking about America's Got Talent
America's gotal you hos I'm hosting it
um 19 seasons and every week you got
some kind of new flashy suit oh yeah
well that's part of the whole thing you
know let me tell you the suit is its own
character right now you know people are
they would be disappointed if I just
came out in a gray suit I'm ready for
the suit to just walk off of your body
and do its own dance that's right that's
right I listen I love this show we just
wrapped our 19th season I've been
hosting six of them okay but I'm looking
at it and I say who are these people
what species are are they human the
stuff they do it's amazing it's it's
what well first of all last season we
had a dog that was the most incredible
dog I've ever seen in my life the dog's
name was Rhythm um that's a cool name
oh it was but the dog danced onbeat
without looking at the the owner
Ronnie it was Unreal I was like I
thought it was a man in a suit for a
while I was like you you you got to be
you're lying it's the best dog act I've
ever seen I always have my brain just
blown every time because I think I've
seen it all you know what I mean you're
like Until you realize you have it you
have not seen it all never there's no
limit to human capability and then I
realized we got 8 billion people in the
world that's a lot of people with a lot
of talent that's it some of which is
waiting to be discovered and I wonder do
I have a talent that could work on on
AGT I you know first of all you can say
no I got know no no no first of all you
don't know until you try I I did not
know that I could act until I was 30
years old oh 30 I never attempted acting
before I was 30 and I did not know it
was my destiny so you might get on there
and try something and go wait a minute
so you we collected questions we went to
our fan base and we said Neil's hanging
out with Terry what do you have
questions for them well they came they
came in lots of questions you got them
which is really good but we picked the
best of the best let's let's come right
off the top let's do all right let's
start with here's Julia Lind uh and she
didn't list where she's from oh witness
protection that's what that we don't
want okay jul from somewhere on Earth we
presume okay she's come with the she's
come with the questions here it's uh
hello Dr Tyson at all is there a
possible way to generate an artificial
magnetic field on Mars so that it can
have a thicker atmosphere and protect
colonists on the surface from radiation
it's a two-part question wow this is
this is deep two part question people
thinking all about it right so and do
you want me to go and this is there a
technology that we could theoretically
develop or would we be better off trying
to build underground colonies on Mars
yeah so what she knows is that here on
Earth we have a magnetic field not very
strong but we have one that's why
Compass anybody remember what a compass
is yeah yeah old old school old school
old school uh we have a magnetic field
and when dangerous charged particles
come from the sun we call it the solar
wind mhm they see Earth's magnetic field
and then they Channel themselves away
and funnel in at the poles and they
collide with our atmosphere and render
it a glow wow causing the Aurora mhm so
when we see the aurora that's the
atmosphere and our magnetic field
shielding us from harmful radiation wow
okay so if we lose our magnetic field
the radiation just comes straight in
wherever it hits Mars we may have once
had a magnetic field it does not any
longer so if you pitch tent you're
susceptible to this Flux Of high energy
particles so she was correct to wonder
will we just have underground colonies
yeah all right and then I'd Wonder well
then what the hell is the point of being
on Mars live under you live under ground
here we'll be basically the ants of Mars
the worms you know whatever you know
like what's the point of that yeah uh
just consider that almost anything will
protect you from those particles like
the roof of a house yeah okay so if you
you could just the shielding doesn't
have to be elaborate it just has to have
some kind of shielding and there's a
whole branch of NASA well there's a
branch that studies the sun and a
subdivision of it that specializes in
space weather we call it space weather
which is when is the solar wind coming
because it correlates with explosions on
the sun yeah it's not just at any time
so as the sun goes through Cycles it
goes through uh intense periods and then
it quiescent it's an 11year cycle so as
it pumps up we get more warnings about
explosions on the sun and as it drifts
off we there's fewer and we know when a
pulse of these particles is going to hit
us because it takes time to get from the
Sun to to Earth or to Mars so we just
have a a warning sign is that any
different from saying thunderstorms this
afternoon tornado warning tornado
warning bring a umbrella but this would
be a special solar wind umbrella you
know and so I don't see it as an
impossible thing to overcome that is
cool and and maybe you create some local
magnetic field and direct the particles
off to the north and south of you your
your little city in a bubble whatever I
mean they could be Engineers figure this
stuff out I love this I'm not worried
about I mean you know that that is a
wonderful thing to say about the
magnetic field it's protecting us it's
protecting us it's so beautiful oh yeah
you but this is another thing I got to
add on to this question I heard that's
alloud that's allow I want to cuz it's
so fascinating I heard that the magnetic
field was actually reversed at one time
yeah in the Earth's history oh yeah
that's exciting North was South South
was North okay now I don't want to blow
your mind okay hit me okay really I love
this I say mine should be blown at least
once a day that that's a quote of mine
I'm just saying okay you ready hit me
okay we're about the same I'm a little
older than you but we're approximately
the same age when we were growing up the
north magnetic pole was in Northern
Canada it was never where Santa is okay
so Earth's magnetic pole has shifted
from our rotation poles I don't if you
didn't know that I did not this and it's
not stationary it moves it's moving wait
hang on hang on so when we were growing
up it was kind of Meandering in the
Canadian you know that whole Northern
area of Canada with just islands and
lakes and things that's where it was
which meant that if you were up in
Canada you couldn't use a compass to
find North cuz it could be south of you
that's right okay so it's no good way up
and way farther down oh and you get a
kind of right good boy scout books would
have a correction table depending on
where you were in longitude relative
Good Boy Scout books now watch you check
it lately that North Pole has been
moving and it is now passing the North
Pole on its way to Siberia
what wait yes yes and pretty soon it'll
be Putin's North Pole you're
kidding
okay the boy controls enough in the
world that's a tilt that's the Tilt
meter just went okay I can't believe
it's moving on top of all that the
magnetic field is getting weaker and we
think it's going to get weaker and
weaker until it's goes away and then
when it comes back again it'll be in
reverse because it flips every time oh
my God now check this out you know how
magnets work right the the plus attracts
to the minus okay so Opposites Attract
that's right you've heard that okay if
you a compass with a North you know with
a little needle and one and there a
north side of the compass that would
point to our north magnetic pole however
that is a North Needle on the compass
yeah why should North Point to North
it's not supposed to I know which means
Earth's South magnetic pole is in our
North wow because all North magnets
point to it that's right that's right we
could have point to the opposite oh my
goodness so you've always been told
that's where our north magnetic pole is
our South magnetic pole is in our North
so okay so now so so we're going to lose
the the field and then it will come back
in reverse then all your compasses will
point the other way we worry that when
the magnet field goes away to flip again
but this is called a Dynamo effect when
it goes away and flips that while it's
not there will it put all of us at risk
yeah so we go back in the fossil record
because it's flipped before wow and if
you go to the points where it has
flipped there's no periods of mass
extinction oh so if it wreaked havoc it
was not Global catastrophe right so I'm
not so worried about it that's deep yeah
will our Electronics still work yeah
because it's not the magnetic field is
not that strong so it's no Y2K
event not even was that an event
remember correctly yeah okay I wasn't
worried so the threat is not good okay
thank you okay thank you oh by the way
everyone thought like why okay
everything would break but keep in mind
the way we celebrate time it's midnight
in 24 different hours in sequence true
it doesn't all happen at once that's
right that's right okay so it's not like
the whole world blows up at once yeah
even if that were going to happen it
would blow up Time Zone by time zone it
would be one at a time so people are get
confused when they say oh the magnetic
axis is going to flip they think it's
our rotation axis and then they freak
out I love this so I got to tell them no
it's just a magnetic has happened before
it's going to happen again listen Man
Neil you blew my mind on the first
question with with the first answer so
Terry I don't know if you realize the
people who ask us these questions
they're part of our patreon patrons so
they get to ask questions in our Cosmic
queries so all of them are patrons I
love that so check it out what's next
all right next is Sandra pink uh Sandra
here from Singapore Singapore very ni
all right I can't wait to Vis Singapore
I was there a couple years ago love I
heard nothing
thank you for doing what you do
inspiring and making everyone's lives
just a little bit better every day nice
question Mr Cruz has so many muscles yes
thank you Sandra you're the best okay
I'm sorry I'm okay La back to science I
bet that's illegal in three
states and muscles are so hard to build
and maintain in the cosmic sense how
important are muscles and why do we need
to work so hard for them if they are so
important to our survival is this
entropy ooh oh o I like
it well okay so there's a lot of
speculation about like the strong man in
the tribe because what does that person
do goes out and gets the the food okay
they walk back with an
elk okay and they the I'm the man and I
brought back the food okay and there's
further speculation that that person has
almost mythical significance in the
tribe MH and everybody wants to mate
with that person because if you don't
want to mate with that person then you
don't have offspring that could possibly
do that in the future and you'll just
die you'll be a dead end in in the in
the and very hungry very that's okay so
people have speculated that this
accounts for the fascination we have
with famous people because that whatever
was that urge to want to make babies
with who brought back the food today you
don't need to do that because there's a
grocery store down the so what became of
that urge it's still there within us and
there's there's the person on the Silver
Screen who's that's the person who I
want to mate with or or I want that to
be my friend there's an urge even though
they're a total stranger and they could
be a total doesn't matter okay
so muscles have that role but there are
other roles that muscles don't really
serve okay so I don't know if if
everybody had muscles you know is that
does that work you know so maybe some
people out of a group need the muscles
for the tribe and you know others need
to be able to climb trees nimbly maybe
to get the fruit somebody needs to uh
swim you surely know how to swim but if
you have less fat as you surely do
you're less buoyant yeah okay people who
have very senu muscles are less buoyant
in the water now Olympic swimmers of
course are are very sort of lanky they
they don't look like you very different
bodies not at all okay seen that yeah
you've seen that but longdistance
swimmers T typically have a little more
fat on their bodies which gives some
buoyancy so that the energy you're
putting into swim is not only to keep
you afloat it's to actually push you
forward because if you're going to sink
some of your energy has to go into not
sinking I love what you're saying
because it shows that the muscle is
skill oriented to to what you need yes
it doesn't have to be big right just
skills it's not about big that's correct
yes I love that and are you quick can
you catch the rabbit yes and some big
muscular person is not catching the
rabbit oh listen I first of all I've
seen for years big guys in the gym who
can't do anything they just they can
just lift weights they're just big you
mean uh I have a perfect example I
thought I was strong and I had a mover
one time little guy I mean he just look
like a normal guy and there was a box I
couldn't move I was literally like hey
man you're going to need to bring some
other VI and no I got it he picked it up
and walked out the door and I was like
oh my because I like the fact that you
benchmarked other people's abilities to
your own ability what what this is the
thing you said I can't do this he must
need help uh I totally told him I was
like you you better get your friend yeah
and he was like no no I got it and he
picked it up and walked out the door and
I realized something I said this is what
he does that's what he does all his
muscles are configured for that
everything is configured moving yes I'm
not I'm a celebrity I don't move
anything you're got celebrity
body I love it pop your pecs that's it
that's it that's it thank you
Sandra Oh this is great yeah so entry is
disorder and generally we like living in
what is ordered and we put energy into a
system to order it so that we can
function within it but we have to get
that energy from somewhere else yeah
things don't be get ordered for free wow
okay so we get our energy from the food
and the food gets it energy if it's an
animal it ate plants the plant got its
energy from the Sun wow so ultimately we
are all solar powered I love that that's
hot that is really that is beautiful man
it's beautiful I you know I tend I tend
to lay out in the sun and I do feel
better after I do that not too crazy but
you know um but I think that's right
communing with the cosmos that way it's
a way to keep me grounded yeah yeah yeah
as you can see those astronauts stranded
in space help us critically think about
the origin of life and future of
humanity but with recent advancements in
technology we might not have to worry
about human extinction after all
scientists have found a way to store the
entire Human Genome in a near
indestructible 5D memory Crystal
enduring extreme temperatures pressure
and Cosmic radiation for a smooth
journey through space when it comes to
groundbreaking developments that
challenge our understanding of existence
it's important to see how different
scientific sources are interpreting the
research to fully understand it luckily
our partners at Ground news make this
much easier to do with their Vantage
plan you get access to original
reporting plus Insight on every article
covering it ground news provides this
level of critical analysis for every
topic you're interested in using
patented technology that helps us see
important perspectives we might have
otherwise missed take advantage of their
massive 50% discount on their top tier
Vantage plan and get access to every
feature we've shown and more for only a
limited time use our Link at ground.
news/ StarTalk or scan the QR code to
subscribe we can't recommend ground news
and their commitment to rigorous
analysis enough now back to the show
give me some more all right here we go
we have will Manel Brown hello Dr Tyson
Mr Cruz new Patron here nice nice
another Patron my name is Will Manel
Brown and I'm from North Hampshire in
the UK North Hampshire yeah North uh
North Hampshire North yeah I got to say
it they got they staple it all together
yeah they do they do I'm not from there
I'm not from the ukuk uh let's see my
question is photons are massless however
are given a mass equivalent based on
their energies yes they do does this
mean that gamma rays are affected more
by the curvature of space than radio
waves due to there being a higher Mass
equivalence many thanks and I love the
show wow okay so there's lot going on
there yes it is so the mass equivalent
you you have the energy of the photon
you plug it into eal mc^ s MH you plug
it in the E is for energy you put in the
energy and on the other side is M mass
times C Square that's the speed of light
squar that's just a constant you look
that up plug it in so energy and mass
are related in this way so what he's
wondering is if it has no Mass would it
still respond to gravity and if it does
respond to gravity do the higher Mass
equivalent photons respond more that's
the question okay now that's very
aristotelion and Aristotle got a lot of
physics wrong okay okay you know what
Aristotle said I'm a little paraphrasing
he said heavy Things fall to Earth
faster than lighter things in proportion
with their Mass he didn't use the word
mass but in terms of their their weight
yeah that's not true like a rock and a
feather Well a feather's different fine
that's true with a feather cuz a feather
is doing this but get a heavy rock and a
light rock right they fall down at
exactly the same rate that's right
exactly the same rate y that is way more
profound than most people
appreciate okay M the gravity is pulling
more strongly on the heavier object M
but it takes more Force to accelerate
the heavier object at the same rate as
the lighter
object so they fall at the same rate
because Earth is pulling more strongly
on the heavier
object okay so let's back up so I have a
something light everything's on Wheels
and something massive and something not
mass put the same force on each thing
mhm on the low mass object it's going to
scoot along real fast right and the
heavy one is not going to go very fast
okay so if the force of gravity were the
same on every object you're putting the
same Force then the lighter things would
go faster right the force of gravity is
stronger on the heavier object yeah
because if the heavy object and the
light object are both accelerating at
the same rate something's pushing that
harder yeah yeah so they all show up
more okay so even though gamma ray
photons have higher equivalent mass than
radio wave photons because the whole
electromagnetic spectrum can be thought
of as Photon even though they have more
mass they're each attracted to gravity
at exactly the same rate wow wow that's
wow it's by the way that's called the
equivalence principle Advanced by Albert
Einstein in
1915 and it's one of the most profound
advances in human understanding of the
universe that there ever was because
everyone thought something's heavier
right it would go in fact the dudes went
to the moon they brought a hammer and a
feather on the the moon there's no air
so the feather is not doing this had the
hammer the feather let go they fell it
exactly the same R yes that's the moon
pulling on them but it's just how
gravity works that's right yeah so
everything will respond the same I love
this cuz it doesn't matter how much it
weighs it's it's it's cool this's
another thing I want to follow up on I I
love this stuff I heard we all have our
own gravity
yes
incredible that is amazing I I thought
it just people cuz people liked me yes
you know what I mean but I so if I put
you out in space and I had like a marble
yeah and I gave it just the right speed
in just the right direction then it'll
go orbit around you whoa not marble
probably like a poppy seed I maybe
something like that yeah yeah oh my
goodness yeah so we can make at least
some of the universe orbit you
your ego needs it I know I know listen
my wife believes I have my own Grand
she's like it's it's called narcissism
is what it's called so the real way to
say it is you and the Earth attract each
other yeah yes that's great that's
that's what's going on that's it that is
so beautiful so if if you jump out of
off a cliff and you fall to Earth what's
actually happening is you and Earth are
falling towards each other except you're
doing most of the moving yeah yeah yeah
Earth will come up just a little bit to
I love that yeah yeah dude so good okay
keep going here we go Samuel Tom uh
excuse me Samuel tomka hello Neil and
Terry Samuel here from Slovakia nice all
right I'm embarrassed as an American I
just an geographically ignorant American
I was asking someone from Slovakia like
what was Slovakia before it was Slovakia
because growing up I don't remember
hearing that right and she said oh it
was part of
Czechoslovakia you know what
yeah yeah like well then I asked another
stupid question I said well s what was
the rest of czecho oh that became the
Czech Republic okay yeah makes all the
sense in the world it's like okay
connect the Dos here but yeah I I
believe me I would ask the same question
believe mehm uh I have a question if
humans settled on a low gravity Planet
would skipping Leg Day have an entirely
different meaning or would we have to
invent new exercises just to keep our
legs from shrinking
keep the fun and education going love
you guys I love it I've been accused of
skipping leg day a
lot I can give two answers to that okay
one of them is if you want to maintain
the physique that you would have had on
Earth yeah you're going to have to
exercise way more and you have to use
exercises where you can add resistance
Beyond just lifting things off the
ground you need like pce and things and
so that's if you wanted to do that but
if you will forever be living on that
low gravity Planet you don't need the
big muscles anymore no you don't and I
heard you get taller yes in fact you get
tallest if do you know that astronauts
that do space walks which NASA calls
extra vehicular activities I'm trying to
get them dude just call it space walk
yeah extra Eva as they call them okay so
astronauts have space suits depending
how tall they are when they're launched
2 to three in tall taller for their
space walk than they do for when they
launch oh my goodness because in zero g
they grow they just grow into grow you
if you're six feet you can grow two
inches that's crazy I want to go to
space I'm going to look amazing when I
come back so your verra yeah no it's not
so it doesn't keep going so your
vertebrae expand because you don't have
gravity compressing them and you get a
couple extra inches so they can't Space
Walk in the same suit that they launch
in oh my my goodness I bet you Z gravity
is good for my skin too just it's good
for everything everything everything I
love it yeah yeah everything just kind
of floats there yeah so like I said if
you don't need your muscles they will
atrophy if you never need your muscles
should we care that they atrophy I don't
know that's right but if you're ever
want to come back to earth you better be
ready for that and the astronauts come
back to earth and they they got all
kinds of machines up there so that they
they their muscle mass yeah because you
can you can get really hurt and you can
still lose bone mass that there still a
un unsolved problem the bone part but
you can be a blob in space that'll be
great you can be blob in space and your
heart won't even know the difference
because it's not pumping Against Gravity
that's good yeah you don't want to clog
your arteries that would but but you can
be chubby but if you if your arteries
were still clear your heart won't even
know this is a great question that was a
great question okay give me another one
Daniel Frank hey guys love the show he
doesn't say where he's from but uh
another another witness protection if
one was able ble to stop time is it true
that you wouldn't be able to see
anything because the photons would
freeze too can we make an exception to
that you know I I don't know if I have a
good answer for that because to the
photon there is no
time you might have heard that the
faster you go the slower time ticks this
is relativity and in the limit at the
speed of light time stops yeah photons
which exist at the speed of light when
they are emitted at whatever wherever
they came from my PhD thesis was on the
center of the Galaxy MH which is 30,000
light years away and when I captur those
photons for me watching them they took
30,000 years but if you're the photon
the instant you left the center of the
Galaxy you hit my detector right there
in the same instant so if there's zero
time I don't know what effect that would
have
on the photons right cuz they don't ever
have time yeah they they're outside of
time in a way they're outside of time
wow in that sense so I'd have to think
more about I don't have a good answer
for that I feel like you know a fish
floating in water doesn't know it's in
the water doesn't know it's in the water
so to speak yeah you know what I mean
and that that's Weir that's really would
a photon know that time had stopped o
that's a whole another deep question oh
we just opened a
Wormhole my brain just
went tilt tilt yeah so I don't I don't
know I love this I know oh by the way
that was a a very dated comment you made
what you said tilt tilt I did I know oh
my gosh Terry Pinball Wizard pinball
pinball I know my kids like what if you
try to influence the the ball you like
hit your hips into into the machine if
you do that too much the game craps out
on you and it says tilt well I I I told
my kids I'm I'm trying to read I want to
make myself so interesting I could read
the phone book and be wonderful and
they're like what's a phone book what
are you talking about oh man already not
interesting oh all right you should have
a few more in there yeah well it's more
um this was Mickey pastillo Mickey from
Omaha here Omaha which flavor on hot
ones was the hardest for each of you
thanks you w hot ones I was on hot oh my
go oh I was high on hot ones it it made
me literally I've never I've never been
on drugs I've never been I never been
drunk before in my life okay dude I was
hallucinating oh it was so painful okay
that I started to see double no I I
spent six years in Texas starting out a
complete Wimp And leaving where I could
I could eat a jalapeno pepper and not
tear so I I had some I had some bit of I
don't want to call it training but life
experience so there were 10 of them
where did where did you start crapping
out oh man I I went all the way you went
all the way the last dab hurt so bad
okay um now you have to understand too
because I do intermittent fasting that
was my first meal of the day ouch that
made it triply I would say it it it
everything up take a minute tell
everybody what hot ones is in case they
hot ones is a show that you know you
basically taste different uh hot wings
at different LS they're buffalo wings at
different levels of heat the sauce was
uh from mild all the way to the most
intense heat you could ever Mega Death
yeah where there these ghost peppers
they have all these names for each one
of them and some of them are not even
found in nature they became this this
contest they genetically
modified Peppers that were like oh my
God like nuclear is that what our GMO
scientists are coming up with um
Chernobyl level yeah and so I think the
premise is you're allowed to talk about
your projects to him but only if you can
get through the the sequence of heat I
had heard another experiment where it's
hard to lie when you're doing something
else um so they would make you hold a
ball bounce a balloon in your hand and
then they ask you questions and you can
really tell who's lying and okay
interesting I never knew that and I
think that's that's the the premise
behind hot ones because because everyone
there is really honest you have it's
like to think through all the the what's
going on in your face and you know
they're honest because they're people
who otherwise have their relationship
with a camera and it goes completely out
the window I I was screaming I literally
had to yell just to keep my brain from
just like okay or running out of the
room I you know I knew I wanted to stay
in it but I was like it's hard so I was
good up to eight out of the 10 and then
nine was pretty severe I already knew
you're not supposed to touch it with
your lips cuz then your lips get you
can't you can't feel your lip give you a
little milk and all that stuff yeah I
did ice water but milk would work too
and but I went to 10 and then I took a
double dose cuz I said I got to do this
oh my God but here's what happened
here's what nobody told anybody did you
fly into New York to do it I did okay
cuz I just took the subway okay
afterwards I go home two hours later I
had explosive diarrhea okay two hours
later now suppose I was on an airplane
suppose I was in a taxi I'm in my own
bathroom thank you and it was like and I
was on the floor I don't if you never
got drunk this never happened to you in
college in college you put your cheek on
the bathroom tile just to feel the
coolness cuz you're just okay I heard
about people doing yeah this is what it
was and so yeah that was my final
chapter of my expence hot one's the
sequel hot twos hot number two no okay
we that's really disgusting
oh I have to start a show like that okay
but it was one thing you do once in life
I think right yeah I would never do it
again that show got syndicated I think
it's on Hulu oh and listen M I know
yours went viral mine went viral went
viral yeah oh people want to see people
they know in pain they do oh look there
celebrities they're just like us they
hurt too I was in tears I was crying it
was crazy okay so Terry we got time for
one more question you got it you got it
here we go and I'm sorry we had like
hundreds of questions came
inck sorry but we just pick them here
all right this is beautiful the last
question is from Riley Ruffin hello Dr
Tyson and Mr Cruz Riley Ruffin here from
Illinois all right I must say Mr Cruz I
love your acting thank you really a big
fan my question is related to the edge
of the observable universe What
observations have been made and can you
describe what it looks like I have heard
that there appears to be some type of
haze is this true and can you tell us
more about it it's a Purple
Haze oh man Mak we writing songs right
now I like it so a couple of things talk
to me um the age of the
universe is in our way the age yeah so
there's a horizon Beyond which we cannot
see because the universe isn't old
enough for light from objects beyond
that Horizon to have reached us yet
that's the Horizon it's not completely
different from the Horizon at Sea where
you're at a ship and you see the The
Horizon are you saying to yourself is
that the edge of the universe no there's
probably ocean beyond that right and if
you sort of sail towards it more ocean
comes into view and you bring your
horizon with you yeah that's kind of the
Horizon is not an absolute thing that's
true it's relative to you and you are in
the center of your own hor Horizon mhm
the exact center okay now it turns out
as we look out into the universe we see
the universe younger and younger and
younger and younger until we see it just
shortly after the big bang itself right
so technically that's not quite a
horizon it's a Time Horizon more than it
is a space Horizon because you can't see
before the Big Bang and so if you wait a
few billion more years as the universe
continues to
expand then there will be a place a
space Horizon Beyond which you cannot
see and if you travel that direction
again you can take your horizon with you
so the real question is do we really
know how big the actual universe is
right do you know how big the actual
ocean is not really no unless you keep
sing until you till you hit land that's
right but if you're in the middle of the
Pacific that's a lot of sandwi you have
no you have no idea
so generally when we speak of the
universe it's how big is the observable
universe we got to contain it because
what's beyond that we don't know no
reason to think it's completely
different no reason to think just beyond
your horizon there's something very
different from the water that you're
witnessing up until the Horizon no
reason to think that so too with the
universe beyond a an observable Horizon
no reason to think the rest of the
universe is fundamentally different from
what's within our own Horizon wow and so
by the way everyone sees themsel as the
center of the universe that's true
that's true which means there is no
center of the universe yeah and one of
my most retweeted tweets I guess it's X
now it was very simple I said be because
the universe has no Center it means you
can't be
it oh appointed not very disappointed I
always thought I was the cner of the
universe
but you oh you know what I got to add
one more thing and what's so crazy is
looking at how endless it is out there
mhm I often wonder is it as endless in
here
meaning is there an end as you go inside
as this atom like okay for a while there
people suspected because they wanted it
to be true that you see the Sun and you
see planets orbiting the Sun when we
when we first are we an atom exactly so
when we first crack the atom they say
wait a minute there're electrons going
around the nucleus so we borrowed the
same vocabulary we don't call them
orbits but we call them orbitals okay
same idea right it's something and they
said well if that's what it is what
happens if we go into the nucleus of the
atom will it be that again and then that
again is it that all the way down no
it's not ah it's just not there's atoms
and then there's us and this
universe and you know not to get too pop
culture on you but in Men In Black there
was the Galaxy on the belt of
Orion I don't know if you remember that
Orion was a cat Okay and he had a a neck
thing in there was this sort of
transparent ball and inside that ball
was the entire universe that we are
living in and it's just this little
dangly thing on the neck of a cat it's
fun to think that and write stories
about it but it doesn't look like that's
the case because different laws of
physics apply to the large scale
Universe than the small and if it was
the same thing all the way down you'd
see repeated true I think the rules
don't stay the same they don't stay the
same they very different very very
different so it's it's a fun thought
this is great I love this man I love
this I could do this all day I love it
here make Let's Make a Deal yes any
future time I'm in Pasadena we'll fire
up the Hearth and we'll do this again
let's do it let's do it I love okay
there a permanent Pasadena date
absolutely absolutely or I'll meet you
at Caltech no
problem just quick you you had very
successful Memoir because your life was
so interesting you shared some of it
with me on a previous time you've been
on the podcast just what your struggles
had been from pro football and you were
not quite homeless but you were
destitute for a while and and how
fortunes can change if you keep
confidence and you and you have to
understand what role failure needs to
play yes they people ready to give up
and I say no that that should be the
force that drives you forward listen the
book was called tough and it was about
it still is it's on shelves it's about
finding your true power and and
literally it's really the power of
choice choice you know the only thing
you can control is you that's it that's
so simple that it's deep yeah it's and
wait it took me years to find that out
because I was a professional victim I
mean looking at all the circumstances of
different things and we all know people
like we all you did hey your fault and
how come I didn't cuz you didn't
professional victim I like that
phrase everything revolved down to my
choices and I realized that and that
really opened the world it it was so
like you said it's so simple it's deep
simple doesn't mean easy no no it
doesn't it doesn't that's the big thing
a lot of people think simple and easy is
the same thing but it's it doesn't and
one last thing I was I was channel
surfing and there's like the animated
yeah Everybody Hates Chris did I hear
your voice still in there my ear bent
you did it just came out I'm so
Everybody Hates Chris everybody still
Hates Chris because that's the sequel
It's a sequ but it's an animated Sequel
and it literally that's audacious it
picks up where the liveaction show left
off and you got all the characters come
back for all the the characters except
well tler James Williams is an adult so
a lot of those kids grew up so we have
new voice actors for the kids but a lot
of characters who were adults at the
time did come back you're yourself
included Arnold Chris Rock Jack a Harry
course CHR Thomas it's amazing and Chris
is the narrator because it's his life
okay we look forward to that thank you
thank you oh and and of course star host
with shiny suits on AGT yes oh don't
forget killer gang my brand new my movie
is going to be out on demand I did a
movie with Dave Batista where we were
like assassins we had our own app where
you could it's like the Uber for
Assassins it's a it's a it's an action
comedy by the way so have a great time
dial an assassin comedy okay you can get
you can get an assassin anytime just
Uber you know it's kind of like oh yeah
look at this you rate your assassin tell
all of our people give them a friendly
face give him a friendly face and I'll
give him a like don't with me I'll kill
you
[Music]
face that's how you do it I've been
doing this forever all right we out
Terry love love you man love you I love
you brother you're the man this has been
another edition of Star Talk Cosmic
queries with special guest co-host Terry
Cruz I love you guys all right until
next time I'm Neil degrass Tyson bidding
you to keep looking up
[Music]